MeitY had envisaged and operationalized a clutch of Centres of Excellence (CoEs) in diverse areas of national interest pan India providing a focal point for knowledge management, driving self-sufficiency, and creating capabilities to capture new and emerging technology areas. These domain-specific CMinistry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has launched an umbrella program Digital India-GENESIS to discover, support, grow, and make successful startups in Tier-II and Tier-III cities with emphasis on collaborative engagement among startups, government, and corporates for promotingThe STP Scheme is a 100% export-oriented scheme for the development and export of computer software, including export of professional services using communication links or physical media. As a unique scheme, it focuses on one sector, i.e. computer software. The scheme integrates the government conceThe Digital Communication Innovation Square (DCIS) is an initiative that is intended to catalyze startup culture and build a strong and inclusive ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. TCOE India is implementing the Scheme on behalf of the Department of Telecom. The Implementing AgeThe North East Entrepreneurs Development (NEED) initiative is an effort by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region to support entrepreneurship and business development in the North Eastern Region of India. The scheme has been formulated to help first-generation entrepreneurs who are shorNEDFi provides financial assistance in the form of gap funding to eligible contractor firms companies for contract work execution. Working capital term loan assistance is given in the form of gap funding. Interest rate is fixed based on prime lending rate with plus or spread as per the credit worthiNEDFi provides financial assistance in the form of gap funding to eligible contractor firms/companies for contract work execution. Working capital term loan assistance is given in the form of gap funding. Interest rate is fixed based on prime lending rate with plus or spread as per the credit worthiThe scheme envisages meeting micro-credit needs small and medium size agriculturists, self-employed personnel and entrepreneurs can be reached much more effectively by involving the services of intermediaries, who can understand needs, demand, and local situations. Developing and supporting NGOs/ VoSet up by North-Eastern Development Finance Corporation Limited (NEDFi) in association with the Ministry of Development of North-Eastern Region (M-DoNER), the North-East Venture Fund scheme was launched in September 2017. It is the first dedicated venture capital fund for the North-Eastern Region (NCENT STAND UP INDIA is an initiative by the Central Bank of India aimed at supporting entrepreneurship and business initiatives for individuals and communities belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). The purpose is to set up a new Green Field New Enterprise in the manufacturingThe Women Entrepreneur Cell is an initiative by the Central Bank of India dedicated to supporting and promoting women entrepreneurs. The aim is to emerge as a key player for Women Empowerment by enhancing their capabilities in Entrepreneurship, Responsive to their special credit needs, and offering The scheme provides grants, technical guidance, and mentoring to individual innovators by incubating their ideas towards the creation of new enterprises in phases. It also provides grant-in-aid support to technology solution providers developing technology solutions aimed at helping MSME clusters. TNew Generation Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre (NewGen IEDC) is the program launched by the National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India, and implemented by EDII, Ahmedabad. NewGen IEDC aThe primary objective of the Programme is to facilitate and support development of products or techniques/technology aimed at specific end use. The specific objectives of the Programme are to develop and integrate technologies following a holistic approach in identified areas;promote application of TIDE 2.0 will promote tech entrepreneurship through financial and technical support to incubators engaged in supporting ICT startups primarily engaged in using emerging technologies such as IoT, AI, Blockchain, Robotics, etc. in pre-identified areas of societal relevance. The Scheme will be implemenNational Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI) is an umbrella program conceived and developed by the Innovation & Entrepreneurship division, Department of Science & Technology, Government of India, for nurturing ideas and innovations (knowledge-based and technology-driven) intThe primary aim of this call is to stimulate research proposals that strongly emphasize solution-oriented scientific work. Proposals should establish a clear connection between the need for scientific research, gaps in existing knowledge, and the demand for project deliverables. The current DST-WTC E-YUVA scheme is mandated to promote a culture of applied research and need-oriented (societal or industry) entrepreneurial innovation among young students and researchers. The scheme provides funding support (through fellowship and research grant), technical and business mentoring, exposure to bio The Small Business Innovation Research Initiative (SBIRI) scheme of the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology was launched in 2005 to boost Public-Private- Partnership (PPP) efforts in the country. SBIRI was the first of its kind, early-stage, innovation-focused PPP initiativThe National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) is transforming ideas, concepts, and prototypes into market-ready products and boosting new and emerging technologies to power national initiatives in key areas. The 25 Technology Innovation Hubs (TIH) set up across the countThe High Risk - High Reward Research aims at supporting proposals that are conceptually novel and risky, and if successful, are expected to cause a paradigm shifting influence on the S&T. The applicant (s) must be an Indian citizen residing in India and must hold a regular academic research positionThe basic idea of SEED Fund is providing Capital assistance to startups with new and meritorious ideas, innovations and technologies. This would enable some of these start-ups to graduate to a level where they will be able to raise investments from angel/Venture capitalist or they will reach a positThe scheme aims to reduce poverty and vulnerability of the urban poor households by enabling them to access gainful self-employment and skilled wage employment opportunities, resulting in an appreciable improvement in their livelihoods on a sustainable basis, through building strong grassroots levelASPIRE- was launched to set up a network of technology centers and to set up incubation centers to accelerate entrepreneurship and to promote start-ups for innovation in the agriculture industry with the following objectives:,To generate employment opportunities by facilitating formal, scalable micrThe objective of the program is to motivate youth representing different sections of the society including SC ST Women, differently abled, Ex-servicemen and BPL persons to consider self-employment or entrepreneurship as one of the career options. The ultimate objective is to promote new enterprises,Niryat Bandhu Scheme is an online certificate program. It is an export-import business under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry for International Business. Digital India and Skill India are the twin objectives of the “Niryat Bandhu Scheme.” The program is implemented by the Director-General of FoAGNIi convenes India's finest technologists and their deployment-ready technologies - from startups and laboratories - with top technology users from Indian and global enterprise, government, and non-profit sectors. And help those who have the technology, deliver it where it is needed. We help thoseThe TDF Scheme extends financial support and expertise to upgrade existing products/systems, processes, and applications by reducing production costs, improving functionality and quality by promoting Make in India, and the development of futuristic technologies with defense applications. The Scheme The Samridhi Fund is an approx. ₹430 crore social venture capital fund. SIDBI has envisaged the creation of the Samridhi Fund to provide capital to social enterprises which can deliver both financial and social returns, in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, RajastPradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY) is a scheme launched by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on April 8, 2015, for providing loans up to 10 lakh to the non-corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises. These loans are classified as MUDRA loans under PMMY. These loans are given by Commercial Banks, RRBs, SmaStand Up India Scheme facilitates bank loans between 10 lakh and 1 crore to at least one scheduled caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe, borrower, and at least one woman per bank branch for setting up a greenfield enterprise. This enterprise may be in manufacturing, services, or the trading sector. In caseThe main objective of the Scheme is the creation of processing and preservation capacities and modernization/ expansion of existing food processing units with a view to increasing the level of processing, and value addition leading to reduction of wastage. The processing activities undertaken by theThe scheme aims at the development of modern infrastructure and common facilities to encourage a group of entrepreneurs to set up food processing units based on cluster approach by linking groups of producers  farmers to the processors and markets through a well-equipped supply chain with modern infThe government has introduced the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for Automobile and Auto Components Industry for Enhancing India’s Manufacturing Capabilities for Advanced Automotive Products. This scheme proposes financial incentives to boost domestic manufacturing of Advanced Automotive TThe Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises presents the PLI Scheme for National Programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) Battery Storage. This scheme is designed to boost the production of advanced chemistry cell (ACC) batteries in India and promote the adoption of clean and efficient eThe NHDP is an attempt to facilitate the sustainable development of handloom weavers located in and outside identified handloom clusters into a cohesive, self-managing and competitive socio-economic unit.,NHDP has been formulated for its implementation during the financial year 2021-22 to 2025-26. TThe NHDP scheme envisages a package of support to the handicraft clusters and artisans which inter-alia include basic inputs and infrastructure support in addition to capacity enhancement to cater to target market.,The components of the NHDP scheme have been designed in such a way that the scheme wiThe Ministry of Ayush has established a National Medicinal Plant Board to promote the development and cultivation of medicinal plants and to harmonize the development activities between several ministries/departments/organizations. The board has been implementing various schemes and policies for theThe Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India has formulated the Central Sector Scheme with an objective to mobilize a medium long-term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects relating to post-harvest management InfrastSIDBI Make in India Soft Loan Fund for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (SMILE) was initiated by the Government of India to make MSMEs take an active part in the ‘Make in India’ campaign. The primary focus is to provide financing to small enterprises within the MSME sector. The term Soft Loan was The Swarojgar Credit Card scheme is an initiative by the Ministry of Finance aimed at providing easy access to credit for small entrepreneurs and self-employed individuals in India. SCC Scheme aims at providing adequate and timely credit ie. working/capital or blocks capital or both to small artisanThe scheme was launched on 8th April 2015. Under the scheme a loan of up to Rs. 50,000 is given under sub-scheme ‘Shishu’; between Rs. 50,000 to 5.0 Lakhs under sub-scheme ‘Kishore’; and between 5.0 Lakhs to 10.0 Lakhs under sub-scheme ‘Tarun’. Loans taken do not require collaterals. These measures Solar power projects can be set up anywhere in the country, however, the solar power projects developed in a scattered manner lead to higher project cost per MW and higher transmission losses. Individual projects of smaller capacity incur significant expenses in site development, drawing separate trVenture Capital Fund for Scheduled Castes (VCF-SC), a scheme launched by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE), Government of India (GOI) was launched in January 2015 for promoting entrepreneurship and provide concessional finance to the companies promoted by Scheduled Caste entreprIn order to boost entrepreneurship and innovation among the SC students/ SC Divyang youth, MoS&JE has launched an initiative viz. “Ambedkar Social Innovation and Incubation Mission (ASIIM)” under VCF-SC on 30th September 2020.,The objective of this initiative is to provide focused support to young SThe present scheme on Biotechnology Industry Partnership Programme (BIPP) is a government partnership with Industries for public support on a cost sharing basis for: · Path-breaking research in frontier futuristic technology areas having major economic potential and making Indian industry globally cThe basic idea of SEED Fund is providing Capital assistance to startups with new and meritorious ideas, innovations and technologies. This would enable some of these start-ups to graduate to a level where they will be able to raise investments from angel/Venture capitalist or they will reach a positSPARSH (Social Innovation Programme for Products: Affordable and Relevant to Societal Health) is the Social Innovation Programme of BIRAC aimed at promoting the development of innovative solutions to society’s most pressing social problems through biotechnological approaches. Since its inception, thIndustry Innovation Programme on Medical Electronics (IIPME) is a collaborative project between the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of NABVENTURES is a venture growth equity fund that invests in agriculture, food, rural businesses and agri/rural financial services at early to mid-stage. The fund invests in asset-light business models, high on innovation/technology, solving large problems in agriculture, food and rural development tVenture Capital Fund for Scheduled Tribes (VCFST), a scheme was launched on February 10, 2024 by Hon’ble Union Minister for Tribal Affairs (MoTA), Government of India (GoI) Shri Arjun Munda in the gracious presence of Hon’ble President Smt. Draupadi Murmur. The scheme Venture Capital Fund for Schedu

The National Startup Award is a marquee initiative by Startup India, DPIIT, to recognise exceptional startups across India, creating economic impact and larger societal impact. The National Startup Awards have been pivotal in providing support to some of the most well-known startups in the Indian ecThe Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is a permanent intergovernmental international organisation, the creation of which was announced on 15 June 2001 in Shanghai, China. It comprises over 25 nations from Asia and Europe. Recognising the importance of innovation and entrepreneurship in drivingStartup India Investor Connect was launched in the sixth meeting of the National Startup Advisory Council (NSAC), convened on 11th March 2023, to serve as a dedicated platform that connects startups to investors, promotes entrepreneurship, and accelerates engagements across diverse sectors, functionBharat Startup Knowledge Access Registry, BHASKAR, is envisioned as a one-stop digital platform where diverse startup ecosystem stakeholders can seamlessly connect and collaborate, catalysing the growth and success of the startup ecosystem across India. By providing a comprehensive platform for connBharat Startup Knowledge Access Registry, BHASKAR, is envisioned as a one-stop digital platform where diverse startup ecosystem stakeholders can seamlessly connect and collaborate, catalysing the growth and success of the startup ecosystem across India. By providing a comprehensive platform for connThe National Startup Award is a marquee initiative by Startup India, DPIIT, in recognizing exceptional startups across India, creating economic impact and larger societal impact. The National Startup Awards have been pivotal in providing support to some of the most well-known startups in the Indian The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is a permanent intergovernmental international organisation, the creation of which was announced on 15 June 2001 in Shanghai, China. It comprises over 25 nations from Asia and Europe. Recognizing the importance of innovation and entrepreneurship in drivingStartup India Investor Connect was launched in the sixth meeting of National Startup Advisory Council (NSAC), convened on 11th March 2023 to serve as a dedicated platform that connects startups to investors, and promote entrepreneurship and accelerate engagements across diverse sectors, functions, s